# 베이스라이트 릴리즈 노트 5.3.14060 (2020-12-15)



## 중요사항 Important Notes

베이스라이트 5.3은 아래의 더이상 예전의 하드웨어와 OS 플랫폼을 지원하지 않습니다. :

* 베이스라이트 4/ 8 시스템&#x20;
* 해당 기능을 수행하는 DVI-to-SDI 컨버터 또는 컴바이너&#x20;
* RME Hammerfall 오디오 카드&#x20;
* 베이스라이트의  테이프 데크 컨트롤  (독립적인 VTRE 어플리케이션은 사용가능)
* Spirit 텔레시네 컨트롤
* Nvidia 쿼드로 450 GPU (유저디스플레이용 카드)
* &#x20;MacOS 10.12&#x20;

베이스라이트 5.2는 DVI-to-SDI 컨버터나 컴바이너를 사용할 수 있는 마지막 버전입니다. 베이스라이트 5.3 버전 5세대 시스템은 AJA kona4 하드웨어가 포함된 베이스라이트 UHD옵션으로 업그레이드를 하거나 GPU DVI  출력을 사용해야 합니다. 이전세대 시스템의 경우 GPU  DVI만 사용할 수 있습니다.&#x20;

NVS450 업그레이드가 필요한 경우 베이스라이트 기술지원을 받으세요.

## 최신기능 (Baselight 5.2.14009 이후)

### 컨펌 개선 Conform View Improvements

* The EDL Import View has been renamed Conform View to better reflect its function. \
  EDL Import View(이디엘 임포트 뷰)는 기능을 더 잘 반영하기 위해 Conform View(컨펌 뷰)로 이름을 변경되었습니다.
* In Conform View, it is now possible conform media against existing strips in the timeline, rather than always creating new strips representing a newly loaded EDL/AAF/XML file. This is useful in a number of situations:\
  Conform View에서는 새롭게 불러와진 EDL/ AAF/ XML 파일의 새로운 스트립을 타임라인의 기존의 스트립트 미디어와 쉽게 구별하여 컨펌 작업을 할 수 있습니다. 아래와 같은 여러 상황에서 유용합니다.
  * Complex conforms: These are often achieved by doing a 2 or more separate conforms, with the conform settings changed each time. This can now be done as follows:
    1. Conform as normal from an EDL/AAF/XML etc.
    2.  In Shots View, choose "Select Missing Material", which will

        result in shots which weren't successfully conformed being

        selected.
    3.  In Conform View, select "Conform Selected Shots". This

        constructs an in-memory list from the metadata of the select

        shots.
    4. Conform again as normal, using different conform settings to the first conform, thus filling in more shots. 5 Repeat steps 2-4 as often as necessary.
    5. Dropping in VFX shots: If Sequence Versioning can't be used because there is no consistent file naming pattern, it is much easier to drop in VFX shots by conforming a small number of existing shots in the timeline than manually browsing for media.
    6. Relinking media: If the media for some or all shots has been moved to a new location and it isn't possible to simply change the scene's container, shots can be re-linked by conforming the problem shots by matching against filename and frame number \[bug 18747]
* For convenience, it's also possible to initiate a conform of selected shots from the cog menu of Shots View. If "Conform Selected Shots" is selected, Conform View will be popped up, if it isn't already present.

### 렌즈 수정 Lens Correction

*   The Lens Correction operator can be used to both correct and apply radial lens distortion. The A, B and C parameters, found in the "Distortion Parameters" section, define the deformation applied to the image according to the distortion equation\


    Lens Correction 오퍼레이터는 방사형 렌즈 왜곡을 수정하거나 적용할 수 있습니다. Distortion Parameter(왜곡 변수) 섹션에 있는 ABC변수는 왜곡방정식에 따라 이미지의 적용되는 변형을 정의합니다.\


    r\_d = A_r\_u^4 + B_r\_u^3 + C_r\_u^2 + (1-A-B-C)_r\_u,\


    where r\_u is the undistorted/original radius from the centre of the image and r\_d is the distorted radius.

    There are three ways to use the tool:

    * Line Based Correction
    * Presets
    * Manually adjusting sliders in the "Distortion Parameters" section

    Three important controls at the bottom of the operator can be used with any of the above methods:

    *   "Remove Distortion/Add Distortion/Auto"

        This controls what to do with the A, B, C parameters. With "Remove Distortion" set, the operator applies the inverse of the distortion defined by the parameters. With "Add Distortion" set, it will distort the image according to the distortion equation with the current parameters.

        Since "Remove Distortion" and "Add Distortion" are inverses of each other, you can also correct an image and then reapply the distortion afterwards: this is what the "Auto" mode is for. The "Auto" mode will apply the inverse of an upstream Lens Correction strip and the option therefore becomes available once you have more than one Lens Correction strip in a stack, or via inserting "Smart Lens Correction" in the "Insert" menu.
    *   "Show Input Image"

        This button displays the image with no distortion from the Lens Correction operator i.e. how it would look if the parameters A, B and C were set to zero. This can be useful to toggle between the input image and the corrected/distorted image to check the changes you have made.
    *   "Distortion Amount"

        This slider allows you to scale the distortion parameters, where 100 corresponds to full distortion for the current parameters and 0 to no distortion. You can also scale the distortion to be greater than 100%. This can be helpful for making finer adjustments.

    **라인기반의 보정 Line Based Correction**

    The line based correction is based on the principle that straight lines in the scene should be straight lines in the image. You can trace over lines in the image which should be straight, but have been distorted. Upon analysing the lines, the A, B and C parameter sliders will be updated with values that correct the distortion and "Remove Distortion" will be set.

    *   Adding lines

        Select the "Add Lines" button to enable the Line Correction overlay. Left-click on a point in the image where you want to create a point on the line. Continue adding points to a line (there must be at least 3 points in a line). When you have finished adding the line, right-click will finish the line and analyse all current lines to correct the image. To finish the line without analysing the lines, use Ctrl + right-click.
    *   Editing Lines

        Once a line has been finished, you can click and drag points on the line to edit it.
    *   Deleting Points/Lines

        To delete a point on a line, hold down Shift and left-click on the point that you wish to delete. Similarly, to delete a line, hold down Shift and left-click on the line. If you delete a point in a line with only 3 points, the whole line will be deleted.
    *   Analysing Lines

        The "Analyse" button will analyse the set of lines and update the parameters. If the analysis is unable to find suitable parameters for the given lens, an error message will appear. You can also analyse at any time by right-clicking on the image.

    Tips for Line Based Correction:

    * Only trace over lines which you are sure are straight in the scene.
    * Try to find lines in the image that span from close to the centre to close to the edge - these lines provide the most information for the analysis.

    Note that the Lens Correction overlay displays the lines in yellow when the distortion parameters (A, B, C) are all set to zero and you are drawing on the input image. When you are drawing on an image that has already been altered by the operator, the lines are displayed in blue.

    **프리셋 Presets**

    The operator comes with some lens presets. By selecting a lens, the A, B and C parameters will be updated with the lens' distortion parameters. Selecting "Remove Distortion" will correct the distortion for images shot with this lens. You can also apply the effect of this lens by selecting "Add Distortion" with the same parameters. Note that for some lenses, you can also specify the focal length that was used to shoot the image in order to get more accurate distortion parameters.

    You can also define your own presets by selecting "Store Preset" -> "Create New Preset". This will store the current values of the A, B and C sliders under a name of your choosing. These presets can be recalled in the preset drop down menu under "User Presets".

    If you alter the A, B and C sliders from the preset values, the preset name will change colour to orange to reflect this. The "No Lens" option shows that no preset is currently selected.

    The "Reset To Preset" button will reset the A, B and C parameters to those of the preset (and the focal length). If "No Lens" is selected, this will reset all of the parameters to zero \[bug 34908]

### 트래서 개선 Tracking Improvements

*   The Tracker has been reworked to simplify and declutter the user interface, add filtering and make planes reusable and accessible inside the tracker strip.

    **Tracker Strip**

    The Tracker strip's user interface has been updated, and it now displays information relative to trackers and planes into two separate tabs.

    * Trackers can now be created from the tracker tab, including the perspective tracker (4 Point Track, and Area Track Perspective).
    * A filtering section has been added.
    * Planes can now be created, edited, keyframe animated or linked to perspective trackers inside the Plane tab. When a perspective tracker has been associated to a plane, every usage to this will use the tracker as well. Every time the plane will be linked inside an operator, the tracker will be as well.

    Planes and trackers can now be given a descriptive name, which will appear when reusing them.

    Elements not in use can be deleted easily the "Delete unused elements" in the Customise menu.

    Planes and trackers can be duplicated, for example when an operator needs to apply a different filtering, but use the same raw tracking data.

    **Filtering**

    Filtering of tracking data is now possible, similar to how stabilisation can be filtered in the Transform operator. It appears both in the Tracker strip, and the track widget.

    It operates as a simple filtering pass of low / high frequency, using a threshold to distinguish between what is noise or motion.

    The Tracker overlay will display 2 distinct trajectories, the usual raw tracking data, and a filtered version one in semi-transparent.

    The filtering parameters are:

    * Shake/Noise: filtering amount of high frequencies
    * Motion: filtering amount of low frequencies
    * Filtering: cut-off threshold between low and high frequencies

    **Tracker Widget**

    The tracker widget inside Shape, Transform, Paint, Grid Warp, Perspective and Text operators has been updated, and the filtering controls have been added.

    In the Shape operator, planes can be created or linked first, before starting to draw shapes.

    **Other**

    * The "New Seq Pick" button has been renamed to "Define Plane"
    * Note that during the upgrade of old scenes:
      *   One point tracks (OPT) and two point track (TPT) with no point

          tracker linked will be ignored.
      * TPT with only one point tracker will be converted to a OPT.
      *   Existing OPT, TPT and area trackers will be upgraded, but if

          they are unlinked and relinked they may render differently.
      *   Existing planes won't be added to the tracker strip, so

          a "Missing tracker strip" message will appear in the tracker

          widget

### 입력 영역 마스킹 Input Area Masking

*   Cursor View and Render View now allow the Mask to be set to "Input Area". This masks each shot to match the topmost Sequence's area, mapped to the Working Format and then to the Viewing/Render Format.

    In a scene using media with a mixture of aspect ratios, a render with Input Area masking will ensure that the changing letterbox and/or pillarbox areas are cleanly masked.

    In a Dolby Vision scene using media with a mixture of aspect ratios, and the cursor is set to Input Area masking:

    * Dolby Vision Analysis is constrained to each shot's input area when "Restrict Analysis To Cursor Mask/Guide Area" is selected
    * Dolby Vision EDR XML files are exported containing per-shot mask information, which prevents Dolby Vision from being applied to the blanking areas.

    A scene rendered with Input Area masking using a Render Format which adds letter/pillarboxing around the Working Format will cleanly mask the letter/pillarbox area without having to create and choose an appropriate mask in the Render Format.

    (Note that operators that transform the image - Transform, Pan & Scan etc - are not taken into account; the masking is solely based on the original position of the input media in the Working Format.) \[bug 48234]

### LUT Operator and LUTs/CDLs in Media

*   A new LUT operator is now available to apply a cube or other look-up table either from a file on disk or from a LUT embedded in the input media.

    The LUT operator improves on the Truelight operator as a way to apply LUTs in a grading stack because it can apply colour space conversions to match the LUT's behaviour, and it uses %C in its file path to make it more portable when opening scenes on systems with different containers

    The CDL Grade operator now has a Processing Colour Space option to specify the colour space in which the CDL is applied.

    Media Import Rules now identifies media that contains grade information and allows LUT and/or CDL Grade operators to automatically be inserted, with correct colour space settings. Supported media types are currently:

    * RED .r3d     (sidecar LUT, CDL)
    * ARRIRAW .ari (embedded LUT, CDL)
    * ARRIRAW .mxf (embedded LUT, CDL)
    * ARRI .mov    (embedded LUT, CDL)

    The R3D Params operator no longer offers CDL controls.

    When a BLG is exported from a grade that uses a LUT operator, the LUT is embedded in the BLG and will be imported onto any system that uses the BLG \[bug 54393]

### Looks Operator Improvements

*   The 'Scene Looks' group has been replaced two new look groups: 'Core Looks' and 'Modifier Looks'.

    Core Looks contain signature looks which mimic a distinct vintage or modern colour process.

    Core Looks starting with C-1 are based on empirical data:

    * C-101 Generic: a very generalised film process
    * C-102 Japanese: a film process produced in Japan
    *   C-103 Earthy: an American print film process applied to digital

        images
    * C-104 Bipack: two-strip process from \~1920-1950
    *   C-105 Vision: spectral simulation of an American film camera

        printed onto an American positive

    Core Looks starting with C-2 are based on analytical models:

    * C-201 Light: a very subtle look
    *   C-202 Vivid: adds intense colour to surface colours without making

        them artificial
    *   C-203 Complement: a split-tone process which makes the shadows

        bluish/cyan and the highlights yellow/orange

    Core Looks starting with C-3 mimic other existing modern colour workflows. The match is produced for a 100 nits dim surround viewing condition:

    * C-301 TruelightFilm-2014: matches the Truelight Film 1 DRT
    * C-302 ARRI-2018: matches the ARRI ALF-2 DRT
    * C-303 Academy-2010: matches the ACES 0.1.1 DRT
    * C-304 Academy-2019: matches the ACES 1.1 DRT
    * C-305 RED-2019: matches the RED IPP2 DRT
    * C-306 Sony-2019: matches the Sony Venice S709 process

    Modifier Looks are all sorts of additional looks that can be added in addition to a Core Look.

    Modifier Looks starting with M-1 are based on empirical data:

    * M-101 ENR: an Italian-style bleach bypass lab process

    Modifier Looks starting with M-2 are formula-based looks to simulate colour vision deficiencies:

    *   M-201 Colour Blind L: simulates the vision of people without

        red-sensitive cells in their retinas (protanopia)
    *   M-202 Colour Blind M: simulates the vision of people without

        green-sensitive cells in their retinas (deuteranopia)
    *   M-203 Colour Blind S: simulates the vision of people without

        blue-sensitive cells in their retinas (tritanopia)

    Modifier Looks starting with M-3 are spectral simulations of light sources:

    *   M-301 Sodium: converts from a CIE D65 illumination spectrum to a

        narrowband sodium light spectrum
    *   M-302 Xenon: converts a Xenon type illumination spectrum to a CIE

        D65 spectrum
    *   M-303 SkyPanel: converts a D65 SkyPanel illumination spectrum to a

        CIE D65 spectrum
    *   M-304 Fluorescent: converts a typical spiky fluorescent

        illumination spectrum to a CIE D65 spectrum

    Modifier Looks starting with M-4 are technical looks to address specific non-creative needs:

    *   M-401 ACES LMT Blue Light Artifact Fix: the Academy recommendation

        to address out of gamut problems in ACES 1.1 colour pipelines

        \[bug 50800]

### 트루라이트 색공간(컬러 스페이스) Truelight Colour Spaces Improvements

*   Added a new version of Truelight CAM DRT family, called "Truelight CAM v2". It makes the first version of Truelight CAM obsolete.

    Changes since TCAM v1:

    * better shadows details
    * shadows and pale skin tones appear more saturated
    * less noise in underexposed images, when the blue channel only consists of noise
    * strong saturated colours have a slightly more natural roll-off
    * highlight Bleach is less intense; highlights between SDR and HDR look more similar
    * improved shadow tracking between SDR and HDR
    * Better tracking of viewing conditions (Dark, Dim and Bright Surround) \[bug 49479]
* Added shader-based ACES 1.1\* DRT family. It increases precision of the DRT especially for HDR viewing conditions \[bug 48239]
* Renamed "Rec.2020: ST 2084 PQ / Rec.2020" colour spaces to "Rec.2100: ST 2084 PQ / Rec.2020", to add the most relevant standards of the colour space to the naming scheme \[bug 50428]
* Rationalised film scan colour spaces. There are now two colour spaces for camera negative film scans:
  * "FilmLight: Cineon PD Log / Generic Negative" should be used if the scanner is set up for the Cineon film standard.
  * "FilmLight: Academy PD Log / \~ADX" should be used if the scanner is set up for the Academy ADX standard \[bug 43313]
* Several improvements in the application of Mastering Colour Space both on input and output:
  * increased precision of chromatic adaptation transform
  * improved accuracy of chromatic adaptation transform for HDR display colour spaces with non-D65 Mastering White Points
  * improved usability for importing renders into the timeline; it is now sufficient to match both the Input and Stack colour space with the correct render colour space.
  * fixed a bug when converting from video display colour spaces (e.g. Video-100) to cinema display colour spaces (e.g. cinema-48) \[bug 49959]
* Fixed handling of sRGB EOTF in sRGB, Adobe RGB and Apple Display P3 colour spaces. A new colour space "sRGB Display: 2.2 Gamma / Rec.709" has been introduced which should be used when dealing with sRGB imagery. It uses a pure 2.2 power-law instead of the compound function. This avoids the sRGB built-in system flare compensation which could lead to crushed blacks when exporting to sRGB media which had been graded on other EOTFs. The Apple Display P3 and Adobe RGB spaces have been corrected accordingly \[bug 52848]

### 프로세싱 포맷 Processing Format

* A new option in Scene Settings "Format & Colour" tab controls the way format transforms are applied:
  *   "Process In Viewing/Render Format" is the traditional way Baselight has worked.

      The transforms from Input Format to Working Format and then from Working Format to Viewing/Render Format are concatenated and applied as one transform at the start of processing.

      This means the image is only resampled once, but that spatial operations in the grade are applied in the Viewing/Render Format and therefore may have different effects when rendered to Render Formats of differing sizes.
  *   "Process In Working Format" is a new option.

      Input media has the Input Format to Working Format transform applied to it, then the grade is processed in the Working Format, then the transform from Working Format to Viewing/Render Format is applied at the end of processing.

      This means that spatial operations in the grade are applied in the Working Format and therefore will have a consistent appearance when rendered to Render Formats of differing sizes, but that the image may be resampled twice which could affect image quality.

      Note that if the Working Format is a smaller resolution than the Viewing/Render Format, this will reduce image quality due to upscaling; conversely if the Working Format is much higher resolution than the Viewing/Render Format, this can result in increased render times \[bug 49186]

### Sequence Versioning Improvements

*   Added new %\* wildcard substitution, which can be used in conjunction with the %V substitution used when doing filename sequence versioning.

    When %\* is present in a filename template, it will match anything lying at that point in the template, which allows %V versioning to work, even if the filenames of multiple versions differ in ways other than by version number.

    For example, consider the following filenames for two image sequences: /vol/images/my\_show/vfx/20200501/shot\_001\_v1/shot\_001\_v1.%.7F.exr /vol/images/my\_show/vfx/20200519/shot\_001\_v2/shot\_001\_v2.%.7F.exr

    In previous versions of Baselight, sequence versioning would not have been possible for these two sequences, as the date directory in both paths would have prevented the generation of a consistent template which worked for both of them.

    Now, however, a %_ substitution can be placed at the position occupied by the date in both filenames, allowing them to both match a single template, thus allowing sequence versioning to work: /vol/images/my\_show/vfx/%_/shot\_001\_v%V/shot\_001\_v%V.%.7F.exr
* In the Scene Settings view, the "Image Container" tab has been renamed "Container & Versioning", to allow a "Sequence Versioning" section to lie on the same page. This section contains the following settings:
  * Detect Version Numbers (e.g. v3): When inserting image sequences or movie files from FLUX Manage, whether or not to look for version numbers and replace them with %V, thus switching on sequence versioning for that shot.
  *   Detect Dates and Replace With %_: When switched on, anything which looks like a date between the 1st of January 1900 (19000101) and the 31st of December 2099 (20991231) will be replaced with %_, thus preventing the presence of dates from breaking sequence versioning. It will match dates in the following styles: 20200519 2020-05-19 2020\_05\_19 2020.05.19

      It will _not_ match dates where the year is only comprised of two letters (e.g. 200519) because these types of dates are found in the filenames of several common cameras and replacing the date in this situation is typically not desired.

      Similarly, it won't match dates with an ordering of DDMMYYYY or MMDDYYYY, as we believe dates in filenames typically conform to the ISO8601 standard (YYYYMMDD).
  *   Strings to be Replaced by %\*: It is not only dates that cause the filenames of different versions of the same shot to differ. In some VFX file naming conventions, special strings are added to encode information regarding the version's status. For example, "I_", "O_", "OSC\_" prefixes on a directory name could encode "input", "output" and "slap comp" respectively.

      The simplest use of this setting allows the user to specify a comma-separated list of strings to detect and replace with the %_ wildcard. In the case of our example, one would enter: I,O,OSC\_ in the edit field. This would allow the following filenames: /vol/images/my\_show/vfx/I\_sh001\_v1/sh001\_v1.%.7F.exr /vol/images/my\_show/vfx/OSC\_sh001\_v2/sh001\_v2.%.7F.exr /vol/images/my\_show/vfx/O\_sh001\_v3/sh001\_v3.%.7F.exr to be represented by a single template: /vol/images/my\_show/vfx/%_sh001\_v%V/sh001\_v%V.%.7F.exr

      This would typically work well, but since the strings are short, it is possible that this could match unusual filenames in an unexpected way. For example: /vol/images/my\_show/vfx/NELLI\_COMP\_v1/NELLI\_COMP\_v1.%.7F.exr would result in the following template: /vol/images/my\_show/vfx/NELL%_COMP\_v1/NELL%_\_COMP\_v1.%.7F.exr which is probably not intended.

      To fix this, the setting also allows for full regular expressions to be used in between the commas, using parentheses to encode the sub-string to be replaced. So, if we used: /(I)_,/(O)_,/(OSC)\_

      this tells Baselight to only look for these strings after a "/" character, i.e at the beginning of a directory or file name. Since we can use arbitrary regular expressions, it's possible to simplify this by using the "|" operator to choose between different options: /(I|O|OSC)\_
  * Check For Sequence Version Changes: This setting isn't new, it has simply moved from the "General" page to this new section. It allows the user to specify whether or not scanning for new sequence versions should occur whenever the scene is opened.
* In Conform View, when the "Sequence Versioning" is set to "Detect Versions", a new "Wildcard Substitution" drop-down menu appears to the right of it. It contains the same %\* wildcard- related controls that appear in the Scene Settings view, allowing them to be experimented with during conform. The values within the dropdown are initialised from the scene settings and the values from chosen conform tab will be written back to the scene settings at the end of the conform.
*   It is perfectly acceptable to manually fix sequence versioning issues by replacing problematic elements of a filename template with %\* directly in the "File Name" edit field of the Sequence operator. Once the change is committed, a new scan for versions matching the modified template will be done.

    Be aware, however, that the %_ wildcard is _only\* available when a filename template also contains at least one %V substitution. If one is not present, the modification will be rejected and the filename will be reverted to its previous value.

### 바 오퍼레이터 Bars Operator Improvements

*   The Bars operator now has better colour space control: the Bars Colour Space option is now set automatically to match the standard of the chosen Bars Type option, and a new Stack Colour Space option controls the colour space in which the bars image enters the grading stack.

    The previous 4:3 SMPTE bars and legal-range grey bars/ramp options are no longer available in new scenes, but will continue to work in older scenes.

    The Bars operator now has support for 4 newer UHD and/or HDR colour bar standards:

    * BT.2111/ARIB B72 (HLG)
    * BT.2111 (PQ)
    * ARIB B66 (UHDTV 4K)
    * ARIB B66 (UHDTV 8K)

    The ARIB B66 bars include high-resolution patterns when they are used in a scene that has a 4K or 8K Working Format \[bug 50526]
* Increased grey bars in Bars operator from 11 to 17 bars. This is useful to verify SDI video scaling \[bug 54980]

### 돌비 비젼 Dolby Vision Improvements

* In a Dolby Vision v4 scene, it is now possible to adjust the fallback v2.9 content mapping by inserting a "Dolby Vision Trim (v2.9 Fallback)" strip \[bug 55549]
* Added the option in Render View to render from a Dolby Vision v4 scene using fallback v2.9 content mapping \[bug 55550]
* Stills and LUTs exported from Shots View in a Dolby Vision scene can now select a Dolby Vision target colour space in order to apply the Internal CMU during the export \[bug 55415, bug 55491]
* Added support for decoding Dolby Vision HEVC in QuickTime and MP4 files \[bug 55719]
* Dolby Vision Trim v4 now has a scroll bar \[bug 55056]

### 한글(논 라틴 텍스트) 지원Non-Latin Text Support

* Baselight is now able to display non-Latin (specifically including Chinese, Japanese and Korean) text throughout the application, for example in filenames, metadata, counters, burnins and in PDF reports. On Linux, non-Latin text may be entered using IBus input methods \[bug 41452]
* On Linux, the icon of the current input method is shown in the top right corner of the UI when text is being entered and IBus is being used \[bug 55356]

### Preferred Layer

*   Added "Preferred Layer Number" mode to Cursor View's "Strip Selection" menu. Once selected, a layer number can be specified in the adjacent text box. Whenever the cursor moves into a new shot, this layer number will selected (overwriting the "Layer Number" specified in the control above).

    This can be set as the default mode from preferences, or saved as the default mode to use when specific scenes are opened via Cursor View's cog menu \[bug 55442]
*   Added Preferred Layer Indicator counter. When enabled, a marker will be displayed on the image if the currently selected layer number matches the "Preferred" layer number (see above).

    Like other counters, the indicator can be positioned/resized with the mouse and its colour (and opacity) can be set from the Counters menu (or Setups panel) \[bug 55442]

### 딜리버리 Deliverables

*   H.264 and HEVC encoded QuickTime and MP4 movies can now be rendered using hardware acceleration. Nvidia driver version 418 or later is required for hardware accelerated encoding on Linux. Parameters allow control over the following settings for each codec:

    * Subsampling: 4:2:0 or 4:4:4 (Linux only)
    * Stream type: Long-GOP or Intra
    * Bitrate: default value is 50Mbit/s

    Note: Not all options are available on all hardware \[bug 54017]
* Raw metadata read from input media is now written into OpenEXR output files, including, for example, LDS lens information in ARRI media and Cooke Protocol lens information in MXF and RED media \[bug 51206]
* Added 'nclx' tagging for MP4 renders. This replaces the 'nclc' tags previously written to MP4 files. The 'nclx' tags are now used to assist metadata-based Input Colour Space selection \[bug 55310]
* Added more comprehensive nclc tagging support in QuickTime deliverables for primaries, tone curve and matrix \[bug 51779]
* JPEG 2000 codestream, DCI, IMF and Broadcast Contribution formats can now be written using the filename extension .j2k \[bug 55067]
* Render View can now show more than one warning about a deliverable. It now warns when a DCP deliverable has an invalid colour space \[bug 35266]
*   Photon can now be used to validate rendered IMF packages. This feature is enabled in Render View by selecting the 'Photon Validation' entry in the 'IMF:' selector. Any errors or warnings from Photon will produce a warning in the render log. Java 8 (JRE 1.8) must be installed for Photon to work.

    On macOS, you can download OpenJDK 8 with HotSpot here: [https://adoptopenjdk.net/](https://adoptopenjdk.net)

    On FLOS 6.4: $ sudo yum --enablerepo=base,updates install java-1.8.0-openjdk After installing java-1.8.0-openjdk, select the new version by running: $ sudo update-alternatives --config java \[bug 54963]

### 익스포트 Exports

* Exports of BLGs, Stills, CDLs and LUTs from Shots View are now processed in the Operations Queue \[bug 53988]
* Added method to easily export Poster Frames as stills from the Gallery by right-clicking within the Gallery and choosing "Export still" \[bug 41504]
* Image format options (e.g. OpenEXR compression type) can now be specified in FLUX Manage convert, and in Export Stills \[bug 55293]
* Bitrate-constrained image formats (e.g. DCI compliant JPEG 2000) now take frame rate as an option in FLUX Manage Convert, and in Export Stills \[bug 55173]
* Removed Mac-specific preview transform option for BLG exports. The standard Linear option works for both platforms \[bug 51045]
* Added Extended Input Range to CineSpace .csp LUT generation. This format is compatible with Nuke and doesn't clamp highlights for linear input colour spaces \[bug 53456]

### 파일 포맷과 코덱 File Formats and Codecs

* The libraw library, used to decode camera RAW files, has been updated to version 0.19.5. Please note this update makes all camera RAW files look slightly different due to improved accuracy in the decoding process. This change affects existing media in scenes created in version 5.2 or earlier \[bug 49430]
* Many movie codecs are now decoded significantly faster than before \[bug 55782, bug 56064]
* Many movie codecs are now encoded faster than before \[bug 55794, bug 56067]
* Updated to DNxHD/DNxHR/DNxUncompressed SDK version 2.6.2. There should be no visible effects \[bug 55802]
* Added R3D Params controls for "Flashing Pixel Adjustment" and "Chroma Noise Reduction" \[bug 54575]
* OpenEXR "acesImageContainerFlag" metadata is now written and read in compliance with the SMPTE ST2065-4 specification \[bug 55869]
* In Draft quality, R3D media can now use 1/8th- or 1/16th-resolution decoding, and BRAW media can use 1/8th-resolution decoding, when the full-size width and height are a multiple of 8 or 16 \[bug 50772]
* Updated to ARRI MXF SDK 3.0.0.12. This fixes an issue with trimming some ARRI ProRes MXFs \[bug 56149]
* Updated to RED SDK 7.3.5. This fixes some issues with highlight roll off \[bug 56148]
* On a macOS system with a GPU that has sufficient VRAM, R3D media decoding is now accelerated using Metal. This is indicated on the menu bar with a blue (rather than green) "G" icon \[bug 53657]
* Updated to Apple ProRes RAW SDK r14184. On macOS, ProRes RAW media is now decoded using VideoToolbox, which can utilise an Afterburner card for acceleration. If ProRes RAW decoding fails on macOS, please install "Pro Video Formats" from support.apple.com/kb/DL2050 \[bug 56025]
* Additional lens metadata is now shown for DNG files \[bug 56427]
* Frame Guide metadata in R3D media is now available as a crop resolution \[bug 54691]
* The ICC Profile for the Apple Display P3 colour space is now embedded in TIFF and JPEG renders \[bug 50992]
* ARRIRAW MXF files are now trimmed (during Consolidate or FLUX Manage copy) to create new MXF files, rather than a sequence of .ari files. This also retains any audio tracks in the source media \[bug 54665]
* ARRI MXF files using Apple ProRes can now be trimmed during Consolidate or FLUX Manage copy \[bug 54665]
* Updated to DNxHD/DNxHR/DNxUncompressed SDK version 2.6.1. There should be no visible effects \[bug 54983]
* SMPTE ST 428-7 XML subtitle files are now supported, including Zposition \[bug 51018]
* Updated Apple ProRes SDK. This improves ProRes decoder precision in areas of completely solid colour \[bug 55158]
* Note that a change in the way Apple ProRes 422 HQ, Apple ProRes 4444 and Apple ProRes 4444 HQ encoding is performed can result in very small changes in rendered QuickTime files compared to files rendered from previous versions \[bug 56271]
* Updated to Blackmagic RAW SDK version 1.8. This adds support for BRAW files from the SIGMA fp camera, captured by Blackmagic Video Assist \[bug 55419]

### 유저 인터페이스 User Interface

* Timeline cursors and marks will no longer stretch to a frame's width when zoomed in. Also increased zoomable range \[bug 44117]
* The geometry of the image display no longer changes before the image is updated. This is particularly noticeable in FLUX Manage Preview and when switching between cursors with different Viewing Formats \[bug 43241]
* Scrolling tab bars (e.g. on Render View and Gallery View) now scroll when the current tab changes, to keep the currently-selected tab visible \[bug 55850]
* Improved appearance and behaviour of tabbed controls, for example the deliverables tabs in Render View \[bug 55828, bug 55852]
* The mouse cursor is now automatically moved to the image display when using "New Shape", "Create Plane" and "Define Plane" \[bug 55454, bug 55456]
* Added scroll bars to several operators so they are more usable in a workspace with restricted vertical space \[bug 53820, bug 55057, bug 55058]
* File panels now ask for confirmation before overwriting an existing file, e.g. when exporting Dolby EDR \[bug 55253]

### Volumes and File Scanning

* The visibility of volumes and media (i.e. whether volumes and media on your local system are visible to other systems on your network) can now be edited from Preferences or bl-prefs, in the System tab. Manual editing of the advertise.conf file is no longer necessary nor recommended \[bug 50543]
* Improved responsiveness of file scanning, particularly in FLUX Manage \[bug 42392]
* Updated the fl-ls tool to use the same file scanner as other tools; this improves performance on indexed volumes \[bug 54113]

### 블랙보드 클래식 Blackboard Classic

* Added static IP address options for the Blackboard Classic in the preferences \[bug 54774]
* Added Encoder push down reset on the Blackboard Classic \[bug 51802]

### FLUX Store Diagnostics

*   FLUX Store systems now run internal diagnostics periodically, and those diagnostic results are available to every Baselight system that shares the same cloud. The 'Network' group has a set of results for 'FLUX Store diagnostics', where the diagnostics are summarised for each FLUX Store.

    Any failures or warnings in any FLUX Store's own diagnostics will result in a warning for the Baselight. Selecting any of the specific warnings or failures will launch a new fl-diag to view the FLUX Store diagnostics in full detail \[bug 23035]

### Operating System and Configuration

* bl-install is no longer run during macOS application installation. If you are running on macOS you can run the bl-install application to copy the cloud configuration from another Baselight system on your local network \[bug 48052]
* The fl-xfs\_fsr and xfs\_repair-3.2.4 programs have been removed. Use /usr/sbin/xfs\_repair & /usr/sbin/xfs\_fsr instead \[bug 52782]
* fl-node-repair can now be used on all FilmLightOS systems. It should be used to repair filesystems when fl-diag detects XFS filesystem issues \[bug 54454]

### Miscellaneous

* Added Gamut Alarm button to Compress Gamut Operator. When enabled it will show all unmodified colours in grey, only the out of gamut pixels maintain their original colour value \[bug 43888]
* Improved Soften operator to give a similar appearance for all viewing/ output formats or proxy resolutions. This is a major improvement over the previous version of the Soften operator, which applied the same amount of softening on all output resolutions \[bug 51999]
* Numeric metadata such as %{Event} can now be padded in Shots View columns, using the same syntax as for frame numbers: %.8{Event} will pad Event with leading zeros up to 8 digits \[bug 49376]
* Added new "Handles" setting to Sequence parameters, with the same options as the "Source Handles" setting in Denoise, DSpot etc. This setting is useful when your source media contains visible cuts. Removing access to handles at one or both ends of the Sequence can prevent artefacts resulting from retiming (using Resampling or the Retime operator) \[bug 54992]
* Updated Truelight tools and library development. The 'zview' tool for viewing list transforms will feel different, but most other changes should not be noticeable \[bug 53318]
* Curve Grade "Customise" menu allows to choose between the familiar main window/zoom layout and a single zoomable window layout \[bug 50700]
* Added black/gray/diffuse white indicator lines to the graph panels in Curve Grade \[bug 50687]
* Added "YCC To RGB Matrix" option to when updating AAF with Baselight grades \[bug 53431]
* Big Metadata View now supports Record Frame Number \[bug 41037]
* New Scene panel in Job Manager can now set the Frame Rate and Field Order from the selection in FLUX Manage \[bug 51673]
* On Baselight TWO/X systems, the licence server bundled with Baselight will be used when there is no standalone package installed \[bug 53060]
* Colour spaces are no longer imported when opening a scene read-only \[bug 43339]
* FLUX Manage operations no longer require the matching build of the software to be installed on remote machines; any 5.3 version is sufficient \[bug 48005]
* Consolidate View now has Selected Shots and Selected Strips options, to consolidate only part of the current scene \[bug 33141]
* It is now possible to switch to Dual Colour Spaces Layout after changing to a stereo/dual output setup, without restarting Baselight \[bug 55103]
* Improved behaviour on filesystems where the standard unix file permissions do not completely describe the user's permission to read or write files \[bug 54114]
* The list of setups in the Setups editor and bl-setups can now be filtered \[bug 55349]
* It is now possible to remove all marks of the same category from the timeline (regardless of the mark type e.g. timeline or shot) by right-clicking on a mark in the timeline and selecting "Remove All Marks of Category" \[bug 34107]
* In the Transform operator, it is now possible to move the image in 0.1 pixel increments up, down, left or right by having Control held whilst using the arrow keys on Blackboard/Slate \[17340]
* Added functionality to "Grading" numeric keypad edit mode for Grid Warp. The numeric keypad keys 8, 6, 2 and 4 can be used to switch selected control points. When holding down the Ctrl key, they can be used for bumping the control points \[bug 49970]
* A warning is now presented when opening a scene from Baselight 5.2 or earlier which might become unusable after using it in Baselight 5.3 \[bug 55810]
* Each operation submitted to a queue from the current application now reports its completion in the menu bar, and if the operations fails or has warnings, also in Message Log View \[bug 55895]
* Basic Formats are no longer restricted to square or 2:1 anamorphic pixel aspect ratios; they now use the pixel aspect ratio reported in the media metadata \[bug 50093]
* New media file paths written to a modified AAF are now updated during Modify AAF renders. If the conformed and rendered media exist on a drive shared with the filesystem of the original AAF, the paths of the new media in the updated AAF are modified to reflect their location on this filesystem \[bug 56024]
* Added an 'Overlaps' option to Shots View Timecode filters \[bug 47030]

## Bug Fixes Since Baselight 5.2.14009

* Reduced memory use for very large scenes \[bug 51520]
* Changed HLG formula to preserve negative colours \[bug 51496]
* LUT export now warns instead of generating a LUT from a stack with Boost Contrast and other spatial operations. Previously you could generate a LUT with Boost Contrast, but the LUT would not match what Boost Contrast would do with an image with highlights and shadows \[bug 48538]
* Strip categories now obey strip brightness control \[bug 48595]
* The bl-export and scenetool programs will now send crash reports \[bug 48680]
* Grid Warp "Hide Overlay On Edit" is disabled when "Overlays" is toggled off \[bug 49280]
* Fixed crash when conforming a scene with Paint strips \[49752]
* Fixed issue in Paint when the current layer has a disabled perspective plane, creating a new paint layer would incorrectly add a plane \[bug 49883]
* Fixed a diagnostic reporting error affecting the 'ramsize' module on some systems \[bug 55652]
* Improved performance of the 'cpu' and 'ramsize' diagnostic tests. Removed the unused hwtree command \[bug 53302]
* The 'cpu' diagnostic test has been re-implemented to fix various issues \[bug 49148]
* Renamed "Shot Frame Number" in Cuts View to "File Frame Number" for consistency with Counters \[bug 50264]
* Fixed reporting of errors from renders to Sony MXF \[bug 50492]
* Fixed errors when copying files to or from non-/vol paths that are only visible on one machine \[bug 51695]
* Renamed "Plugins" tab in Preferences to "Operators" \[bug 53677]
* Fixed bug which caused graph control text in Curve Grade, Retime, Matte Curve (in Matte Tool) and Histogram View to not obey the UI Font Size preference \[bug 54403]
* The scenetool debugging command can now undo/redo scenes without always failing \[bug 43251]
* Fixed some issues with TIFF metadata and raw metadata \[bug 51206]
* Fixed second cursor scope in 2x1 Butterfly display when zoomed-in \[bug 54750]
* Fixed formatting of JSON emitted by fl-imageinfo's -raw option \[bug 54829]
* Fixed Scene tile in FLUX Manage not representing the current state of the media in its scene \[bug 38374]
* Fixed slower-than-expected rendering of image sequences read from a remote machine across dual 10G network interfaces \[bug 55009]
* Fixed copy failure with sequences using very large frame numbers \[bug 54650]
* Fixed issue with Paint not drawing correctly when combined with a Text operator \[bug 49291]
* Fixed errors when dragging more than one selected folder to an action in FLUX Manage \[bug 50599]
* Removed potential incorrect colour space conversion on matte input of composite layers \[bug 55100]
* Fixed issue where FLUX Manage Convert or "fl-cp -f" could fail or produce images in the wrong file format \[bug 55151]
* Fixed issue with paste actions resulting in more than one decode parameter operator in the input strip \[bug 50154]
* Fixed audio codec parameters dialog not working in 'Sequences + Audio File' and 'Movie Video + Audio' in Render View \[bug 55212]
* Fixed incorrect Video LUT being set when importing media whose colour space is not clear from its metadata \[bug 48628]
* Fixed possible crash deleting left/right keyframes in Grid Warp operator \[bug 50762]
* Fixed errors when converting images to Y'CbCr DPX, by removing support for this option \[bug 55271]
* Fixed render error when 12 bit caching enabled \[bug 51500]
* Fixed hang when double-clicking a scene in the Save As job browser \[bug 55284]
* Fixed Chalk bug which prevented buttons being dragged to/from centre panel button indicator \[bug 50749]
* Fixed failures rendering to 10-bit 4:4:4 RGB FLYCC \[bug 55289]
* Fixed failure grabbing 16-bit DPX or ADX files to the Gallery \[bug 55194]
* Improved handling of colour tags in QuickTime files \[bug 54881]
* Fixed failure reading raw metadata from an audio-only MXF \[bug 55318]
* Fixed Coding Equations (Y'CbCr Matrix) written into Avid OpAtom MXF \[bug 55302]
* Fixed bug in conforms using multiple search directories where none of the generated media filenames would contain a %C if one of the search directories didn't lie within the scene's current container \[bug 51706]
* Fixed error decoding monochrome ARRIRAW media \[bug 55333]
* Fixed Zoom/Pan Ganging not working properly for non-visible cursors when one of the cursors was in "Panorama" mode \[bug 48282]
* Fixed "Insert Relight 3D" menu item creating an incomplete stack if the media under which the Relight is being inserted didn't contain sufficient image tracks \[bug 49828]
* Renamed the image format 'JPEG 2000 codestream (16-bit lossless)' to 'JPEG 2000 codestream (16-bit)' to better reflect the default compression setting of 10:1 \[bug 55325]
* Fixed sorting order of image formats in Export Stills \[bug 55232]
* Fixed layer selection double press selecting the correct layer on a double press \[bug 52002]
* Fixed occasional crash in Conform View, which could occur when "Select by Format" was clicked during a conform \[bug 55311]
* Fixed incorrect behaviour if FLUX Manage View is closed while it is in Preview or Play mode \[bug 53782]
* Fixed confusion in FLUX Manage right-click menu when more than one folder is selected \[bug 55156]
* Fixed potential Reference strip related crash \[bug 55185]
* "Apply" and "Smart Paste" will now try to restore/maintain the selected strip based on the cursor's layer number (when "Deselect after Paste" is disabled) \[bug 55486]
*   Fixed incorrect BLG DRT not being used when a scene-referred BLG was inserted into a scene utilising a grade result colour space.

    Also fixed the Stack Colour Space not being set appropriately in the Sequence operator when the working format of the BLG didn't match the working format of the scene being inserted into.

    Finally, a warning is now given if a difference in DRT between the BLG and the scene being inserted into could result in the image looking different to what was expected \[bug 50958]
* Fixed incorrect screen aspect ratio when rendering Interop DCPs at 1998x1080 \[bug 55406]
* The "zones" diagnostic test no longer warns in some valid situations, e.g. when a volume has a definition on one system but not another \[bug 39273]
* Fixed the URL shown in the Client View menu \[bug 55511]
* Fixed bug in shot playback order when using playback filtering in conjunction with "Current Shot" range mode \[bug 55354]
* Fixed a potential crash when importing/upgrading old 4.4 scenes \[bug 55517]
* Fixed progress and error messages when importing or exporting jobs and scenes from the Job Manager \[bug 55589]
* The FilmLight system management web pages available at https://:1984 will now display useful information even if the machine is not licensed. In addition, the FLAPI daemon is automatically restarted after a licence is installed via the web interface \[bug 54476]
* Fixed Switch Dust behaviour when using monochrome images \[bug 55462]
* Fixed crash when exporting stills from the Gallery with no scene open \[bug 55526]
* Fixed inability to use IBus input methods (e.g. for Chinese, Japanese or Korean text) on FilmLightOS 6.4 \[bug 55477]
* Fixed Dolby Vision v4 Internal CMU not omitting Tone Detail when it was set to -1 \[bug 54234]
* Fixed Dolby Vision v4 EDR XML when the mastering display and the HDR renders are not both Rec.2020 or both P3D65 \[bug 55574]
* Fixed Home/End navigation when playback filtering/sorting enabled \[bug 55378]
* FLUX Manage now updates the view of a directory when new files are created within it by rendering a sequence or movie or by using one of the various exporters \[bug 55587]
* Improved home/end behaviour when no strip selected and removed unnecessary 'legacy' behaviour option \[bug 53798]
* Fixed crash reading certain MXF files \[bug 55608]
* Product version entries in raw metadata from MXF now use SMPTE names and set the build type field correctly \[bug 55643]
* Fixed crash when changing Dustbusting Duration with no paint layers \[bug 55426]
* Improved error messages from LUT exports \[bug 55491]
* Fixed %E (Event Number) substitutions in Media Import Rules \[bug 55314]
* Ensure we don't play beyond the end of scene when it's switched into "Read Only" mode \[bug 55384]
* Fixed potential crash on exit \[bug 53965]
* Fixed potential crash when opening scenes and recovering unsaved edits \[bug 55870]
* Fixed spurious "unknown host type" warning in fl-diag \[bug 55866]
* Files rendered using Pixspan compression now have '.pxz' appended to the regular filename extension instead of replacing it \[bug 55709]
* Fixed bug which could cause incorrect shots to be affected by paste/apply operations with timeline filtering enabled \[bug 55763]
* Fixed incorrect Blackboard button text on return to strip in the tracker \[bug 53935]
* Added missing 'Canon RAW Params' to Insert menu \[bug 55422]
* Fixed crash creating a perspective tracker after a vertical timeline alignment \[bug 55797]
* Fixed bug where pressing a Blackboard 2 encoder to reset its value might result in a small difference to the expected default value \[bug 51083]
* Fixed error when rendering 120fps Apple ProRes QuickTime movies \[bug 41699]
* Fixed error rendering with a mask \[bug 55744]
* Fixed issue with Blackboard Classic not reconnecting correctly \[bug 55385]
* Fixed incorrect overwrite of input strips during Conform Selected Shots \[bug 55800]
* Fixed slow playback when the current layer contains tracking information \[bug 55876]
* Improved behaviour of the XML analysis file buttons on Render View \[bug 55896]
* Fixed several bugs in Multi-Paste when:
  * Matching by "Record Timecode" and some shots had speed changes
  * Source and destination scenes had different working frame rates
  *   Source and destination shots had different timecode frame rates

      \[bug 44994]
* Fixed crash when using Paint clone above an Add Grain or other multiple-input operators \[bug 40243]
* Fixed unreadable text on the image display when the GPU is not available during startup \[bug 55686]
* Fixed flux service occasionally restarting while an operation was in progress \[bug 55918]
* LUT Export: Filename preview now uses Stack Colour Space instead of Working Colour Space for LUT naming \[bug 55467]
* Fixed crash which could occur when using Layer  + Render Line Up/Down on Blackboard to move layers up/down in the stack \[bug 53717]
* Fixed "Delta in progress" in the perspective operator when adjusting trackball rings and encoders on the control surface \[bug 55809]
* Fixed the colour space used for the ungraded half of the preview image when exporting BLG files \[bug 53089]
* Fixed the colour space used when rendering thumbnails of BLG files in FLUX Manage, particularly when choosing the graded or source tracks (this space is now stored in the BLG EXR metadata as "uk.ltd.filmlight.blgpreviewcspace") \[bug 55920]
* Fixed bugs in timecode entry fields:
  *   Fixed bug where, if the last character typed in a timecode cell

      was '0', it would cause the next cell only accept one character

      before immediately jumping to the cell after that.
  *   Fixed bug, where if the selection was zero-width and the value

      of a timecode cell was "10" or higher, typing in the cell

      wouldn't affect its value at all.
  *   Made pasting of timecode values work properly. Previously, only

      the first couple of characters of the copy buffer would be

      pasted into the cell containing the left of the selection

      \[bug 55523]
* Fixed crash which could occur when doing timeline edits using the numeric keypad, if one deleted a strip after starting to type the edit size but before pressing Enter \[bug 55179]
* Partial conform no longer changes the record timecode of shots in the timeline \[bug 55952]
* Fixed bug which caused the input colour space of Sequence operators to not update properly when switching between different versions of the clip using sequence versioning \[bug 55915]
* Fixed bug which caused audio elements of input strips to be overwritten during partial conform \[bug 55953]
* When using fl-cp or fluxc to convert a legal-range movie (e.g. Apple ProRes) to a sequence, a legal-to-full LUT is now correctly applied during the conversion \[bug 47137]
* Fixed bright pixels seen in very dark areas of some ProRes RAW media \[bug 56084]
* Fixed an incorrect colour space warning when rendering IMF packages using the Netflix HDR type \[bug 56053]
* Fixed the file structure of rendered QuickTime and MP4 movies to enable 3rd-party software (e.g. Apple Compressor) to read Mastering Display and Content Light Level metadata \[bug 56098]
* Fixed disconnect crash when using a Blackboard Classic \[bug 56090]
* Fixed regression in SDI playback performance when playing back complex grading stacks \[bug 55684]
* Fixed crash when a Look file is missing \[bug 56213]
* Fixed crash when editing in ripple mode \[bug 36559]
* Fixed Modify AAF crash on some systems \[bug 54666]
* Fixed failures when editing certain operations from Queue Manager (e.g. a FLUX Manage rename operation) \[bug 47778]
* Fixed bug where the input colour space of a shot could be spuriously overwritten when inserting BLG beneath \[bug 56356]
* Fixed crash when pasting into Column Expressions in Shots View \[bug 55074]
* Fixed various issues relating to using the Alt modifier, including Alt+B to insert a Blend operator \[bug 56237]
* Reduced the brightness of the Blackboard Classic's ready buttons \[bug 56430]
* In a scene with 12-bit Integer RGB timeline cache setting, 16-bit RGB rendered files (e.g. DPX) are no longer written at 12-bit precision \[bug 56381]
* Fixed an issue that caused very small differences between some rendered files depending on the scene's timeline cache setting \[bug 56381]
* Fixed an error in mapping calculations. When an implicit mapping was used between two formats with differing pixel aspect ratios, a narrow black line could appear at the right-hand side of the image \[bug 56460]
* Fixed timeline caching being stopped after cancelling a Dolby Vision analysis \[bug 56376]
* Fixed Baselight HOME causing licensing errors on a Baselight TWO \[bug 56348]

## Known Issues

* When running Baselight CONFORM or Daylight on macOS 10.15 Catalina, local volumes which are defined in volume.cfg within /Volumes can result in "Stale NFS file handle" errors. This is due to a bug in macOS. To work around this issue:
  * open System Preferences from the Dock or the Apple menu
  * choose "Security & Privacy"
  *   click the padlock icon and use your password or Touch ID to allow

      changes to be made
  * select "Full Disk Access" in the list on the left
  * click the "+" button on the right to open a file browser
  * on your keyboard, press "/" to open the "Go to the folder" dialog
  * enter "/sbin" and click "Go"
  *   select the file called "nfsd" and click "Open"

      After restarting your Mac, the volume(s) should now work correctly

      \[bug 53073]
* Saturated areas in Photo RAW files can acquire a colour tint when adjusting the exposure slider in the Photo RAW Parameters operator while blending highlights \[bug 44769]
* Sony RAW media added to scenes in Baselight 4.4m1.9217 or earlier may now fail to decode at half resolution. A workaround is to enable Max Quality decoding on the cursor and/or Sequence \[bug 46625]
* Baselight 5 enables GPU acceleration in OFX plugins. This improves performance but may introduce new issues depending on the 3rd-party plugin implementation \[bug 47224]
* Canon RAW media added to scenes in Baselight 5.1.10836 or earlier using the tone curve setting "Canon Log" may now fail to decode with an error message stating "Invalid function parameter". Changing the tone curve will allow images to decode, but will change their look \[bug 50371]
