# 베이스라이트 릴리즈 노트+ 5.3.15167 (2021-08-10)

## 중요 알림

베이스라이트 5.3은 아래의 더이상 이전 하드웨어와 OS 플랫폼을 지원하지 않습니다. :&#x20;

* 베이스라이트 4/ 8 시스템
* DVI-to-SDI 컨버터와 컴바이너를 사용하는 기능
* RME Hammerfall 오디오카드
* 베이스라이트의 테잎 테크 컨트롤  (독립적인 VTRE 어플리케이션은 사용가능)
* Spirit 텔레시네 컨트롤
* NVIDIA Quadro NVS 450 GPU (유저 인터페이스 디스플레이 카드)
* macOS 10.13 과 이전 버전

Generation V systems using DVI-to-SDI Convertors or Combiners need to either be upgraded to the Baselight Ultra High Definition option (see data sheet) which includes an AJA Kona 4 PCIe card or revert to GPU DVI output. Earlier generation systems are now constrained to a GPU DVI output only.

Please contact Baselight support to discuss upgrading from a NVS 450 if required.

FilmLightOS 8 or later is required to use GPU JPEG 2000 acceleration with Nvidia Ampere GPUs

Truelight Player (tl-player) 은 더이상 지원하지 않습니다.&#x20;

## 최신기능 5.3.15105이후

## Media Ingest View 미디어 인제스트 뷰

Media Ingest View has been added to the list of available views.

Media Ingest allows for media to be quickly and easily ingested into Baselight or Daylight by filtering found video and audio sequences into scenes and copying files over to a specified container.\
Media Ingest는 비디오 및 오디오 시퀀스를 씬단위로 필터링하고 파일을 지정된 컨테이너로 복사하여 Baselight 또는 Daylight로 미디어를 빠르고 쉽게 인제스트 할 수 있습니다.&#x20;

Copied files can be checksummed with an MHL file generated at the container, or individual MHL files can be generated for copied reels or clips.\
복사된 파일은 컨테이너에서  생성된 MHL파일로 체크섬을 확인하거나, 복사된 릴 또는 클립에 대해 개별 MHL파일을 생생성할 수 있습니다.&#x20;

Ingest Settings are stored in a chosen Job allowing for access from different devices on the same network. Settings can also be stored in a list of presets which can allow for easy switching between ingest specifications.

Media Ingest will create scenes for media based upon a chosen Scene Naming template. This template allows for metadata values such as Reel, Date, or Tape, causing media to be filtered into different scenes depending on its metadata.

Non-Media files can also be included in the ingest copy and checksum.

Different copy behaviours are available by specifying a Copy Option.

Media Ingest has two copy methods, Rebuild and Maintain; Maintain will bring the same directory structure at the source volume over to the container, whereas Rebuild allows for the container's directory structure to be built using a chosen Scene Template.

The Scene Template can be edited, opening its Media Ingest Settings from within Media Import Rules. Each Import Rule has a Destination Path in the Media Ingest Settings tab. This path will always begin with the chosen container and can then contain metadata (similar to the Scene Naming template) allowing for media files to be copied to directories named after their metadata. For example, you could define a rule matching all video sequences that filters them into their reels and then a "Camera\_Media" directory automatically at the container using a destination path of "Container/%{Reel}/Camera\_Media/".

Custom Variables with custom names can also be added to the Destination Path for rebuilding. These will be prompted for in Media Ingest View when a scene template containing a Custom Variable in a Destination Path is chosen.

Media Ingest View will pop up automatically when new local media is added. This can be disabled \[bug 53030]

## Shots View Improvements

*   The DBS and related functionality has been added to Shots View.

    In Shots View grid layout, thumbnails are now correctly sized and snap to fit their given space when resizing \[bug 51518]
* Thumbnail size adjustments are now properly remembered when switching between Shots View list and grid layouts \[bug 57714]
* The right-click menu in Shots View now correctly appears in grid layout and over thumbnails \[bug 46677]
* In Shots View, selected shots are no longer displayed using a glow, which had visibility issues when scrolling Shots View. Instead, selected shots are displayed by a changed background colour, giving a more modern appearance \[bug 40098]
* Shift-click in Shots View no longer selects all shots from the beginning. Instead, shift-clicking a shot will select from the current shot \[bug 28116]
* 'Alt-Click Used To Nagivate' has been removed and replaced with 'Navigation', 'DBS Movement', and 'Selection' sub-menus. This allows the affect of different modifier key + click combinations to be easily changed. 'Navigation' and 'DBS Movement' sub-menus have also replaced 'Alt-Click To Navigate' in Cuts View \[bug 54688]

## Gallery Quickslots

*   The Gallery keypad mode adds nine assignable Quickslots to gallery scenes. In Gallery mode, a long press of keypad keys 1-9 will store or overwrite the respective quickslot in the current gallery scene with the grade stack of the current shot. A quick press of keys 1-9 will apply the stored quickslot to the current shot.

    In Gallery mode, keypad key '0' will temporarily enter DBS GoTo mode. Pressing '0' followed by a quickslot key will move the DBS to that slot. This can also be achieved by holding View or Try and pressing a quickslot key.

    Quickslots can be assigned or unassigned via the gallery right-click menu.

    Quickslots will always appear ordered at the beginning of a gallery scene. They can be easily identified by a numbered rounded square at the top-left of thumbnails. They cannot be re-ordered.

    To display only Quickslots in the gallery, toggle 'Quickslot mode' via either the right-click menu, or by pressing the '+' or '-' keypad keys on a Blackboard or Slate.

    Note: On a Blackboard Classic, the Recall keypad mode which was previously assigned to the 'Gallery' button has been moved to the 'Macro' button \[bug 55997]

## Remote Slate

*   The Slate can be set to run in Remote mode. This requires a connection to the remote machine, a local machine with the Slate connected and Baselight installed on both machines.

    On the remote machine, in the preference under "System->External Devices", the "Filmlight Slate" can be set to "Ethernet - Remote USB". The IP address of the local server should also be set. Once this is setup, Baselight can be started on the remote machine and will then connect to and use the local machine's Slate \[bug 57304]

## Miscellaneous

* Added two new display modes, Dissolve and Difference. These modes are useful for comparing the results of two cursors in the same or different scenes. When in Dissolve layout the Dissolve Amount can be controlled by either a slider in the 'Display' Menu or by using shift + the left most trackball ring \[bug 5719]
* fl-node-repair is now compatible with FilmLightOS 8 \[bug 55438]
* Added support for Hi-DPI displays on FilmLightOS/CentOS 8 \[bug 54779]
* Improved the Text Macros Panel to streamline adding new macros, and to allow macros to be sorted and reordered \[bug 57308]
* Added support for up to 32 audio channels \[bug 45688]
* Updated Apple ProRes RAW SDK. This adds support for ISO and White Balance adjustments in ProRes RAW Params operators. Important note: Due to this update, images may appear slightly different from how they did in older builds \[bug 55746]
* Updated to RED SDK 8.0.3. This adds support for Komodo Anamorphic \[bug 57553]
* Updated to DNxHD/DNxHR/DNxUncompressed SDK version 2.7.0. There should be no visible changes \[bug 57438]
* Updated to Sony RAW SDK version 3.5.0, and a new Sharpness control to the Sony RAW Params operator \[bug 56322]
* Updated to Blackmagic RAW SDK version 2.1. This adds support for Nikon Z 6II and Z 7II Blackmagic RAW clips captured by Blackmagic Video Assist, and new DaVinci Wide Gamut and DaVinci Intermediate gamma support \[bug 57556]
* Updated to Sony SMDK Toolkit version 4.20 \[bug 56321]
* ISO controls in several Params operators now show a slider as well as a popup menu \[bug 57812]
* Slider controls that are restricted in the values they can use now show marks to indicate these values \[bug 57877]
* If an inserted movie file has no timecode track, its Reference Timecode is now set to run from 00:00:00:00 at the scene's timecode frame rate, similar to the "Use Frame Number" option for image-sequence media \[bug 57406]
* ARRI Frameline metadata is now reported and can be used (for example) in Media Import Rules \[bug 57590]
* The Audio Channel Layout dialog has been improved, with more descriptive text, and source channels listed on the left hand side \[bug 57632]
* Raw metadata now includes HEVC codec details from HEVC subdescriptors in MXF files \[bug 57617]
* The following audio channel labels have been added:
  * Left Total
  * Right Total
  * Hearing Impaired
  * Narration
  * Dialog Centric Mix
  * Centre Surround Direct
  * Headphones Left
  * Headphones Right
  * Click Track
  *   Foreign Language

      All audio channel labels are now recognised by QuickTime Player when

      used with the QuickTime format \[bug 57630]
* Updated the Pixspan SDK to version 3.4.31. This adds support for reading additional types of Pixspan compressed ARRIRAW .ari files \[bug 55495]
* Added support for reading all audio channels from QuickTime files that have multiple tracks with multiple channels \[bug 56595]
* QuickTime deliverables now supports 5.1 + 2.0 channel audio. Setting the audio channels in Render View to '8 channels (5.1 + 2.0)' will produce separate 5.1 and 2.0 audio tracks in the same file. Source channels 1-6 are used for 5.1 surround and source channels 7-8 for the 2.0 channel stereo track \[bug 57615]
* Camera posture metadata is now read from Sony MXF files \[bug 57183]
* The compression level of DWA compressed OpenEXR files can now be configured \[bug 57782]
*   The "Truelight Hardware" menu option has been moved to Cursors View and is now shown in the Truelight section as a choice between "Apply Before Cache" and "Apply After Cache".

    Apply Before Cache allows HDR LUTs to be used, and may reduce flickering when changing cursors with different Truelight settings, but will cause the scene to be recached if the Truelight settings are changed.

    Apply After Cache stores frames in the timeline cache without Truelight applied, which allows Truelight settings to be changed without requiring the scene to be recached \[bug 57788]
* For increased security, crash reports can now be configured to use https when connecting to FilmLight, by running "fl-report -s https" \[bug 45125]
* The menu on the Add Deliverable button on Render View is now more easy to read \[bug 57808]
* Added 'Edit' menu option to reset/clear the Scratchpad \[bug 25045]
* Updated the Comprimato SDK used for GPU JPEG 2000 acceleration to version 2.7.2 on FilmLightOS 8. This adds support for Ampere GPUs \[bug 57835]
* The "Fast Start" option for QuickTime and MP4 files is now presented as a toggle button instead of a separate file type \[bug 57281]
* Added support for reading DVCPRO from Op1A and Op1B MXF files \[bug 57976]
* Improved the UI layout of OFX plugins, e.g. Sapphire \[bug 57979]
* Small UI improvements to the Timeline Sort, Multi-Paste and Timeline Alignment views:
  * Added scroll bars to the setting section.
  *   Added a splitter bar between the setting and progress

      sections.
  *   Settings page tabs are now renamed by simply double-clicking

      in the tab and editing directly.
  *   Horizontal scroll buttons appear in the page tab section

      when there is insufficient horizontal room to show all the

      tabs \[bug 57987]
* It is now possible to cancel in-progress Multi-Paste operations via a progress dialog which pops up if the paste has taken longer than three seconds \[bug 56354]
* It is now possible to choose between algorithms when scene detecting. The default algorithm (multi-frame) works well in most cases, but the old algorithm (2-frame) may work better on certain material - particularly material that has been retimed. Also increased the allowed noise threshold range (which can also help with retimed material) \[bug 58109]
* The "Smart Dissolve" function now sets the Dissolve strip's Start/End Alpha appropriately based on how the two shots being dissolved overlap \[bug 57445]
* The SDI metadata now correctly reflects whether the SDI signal from an AJA IO device contains PQ HDR information \[bug 58091]

## Bug Fixes Since Baselight 5.3.15105

* Modified TCAMv2 parameter for viewing condition VideoWide 10000. VideoWide 10000 DRT does no longer roll-off at 4000 nits \[bug 57939]
* Fixed Dolby Vision analysis of multiple shots with different Input Formats, when using Input Area masking \[bug 57307]
* Added desk controls to the Deflicker operator \[bug 57254]
* Fixed issues with starting the index service. The index service has been changed internally and has a schema version of 3 in this release, which will be created automatically at installation time \[bug 57343]
* The bl-power program no longer shows service tabs under FilmLightOS 8. Use the standard Cockpit web interface instead \[bug 52482]
* Fixed a startup sequencing issue that could stop Baselight TWO systems from automatically powering-on their UI hosts \[bug 57757]
* On systemd-based platforms, bl-backupdb will now default to using versions pg\_dump & psql that match the locally running server. This can be overridden via the config file (see "bl-backupdb -i" for details \[bug 58088]
* Fixed a crash where a Media Import Rule could use a Format or Colour Space that was no longer present in the scene \[bug 46090]
* Fixed a problem where entering invalid dates into the Shots View was not handled properly \[bug 57364]
* Media volumes that are mounted at more than one mountpoint no longer result in duplicate menu entries \[bug 57349]
* Added the bypass category to the show versions in the scratch pad \[bug 57436]
* The NVME diagnostic no longer reports a configuration error when a Thunderbolt device is connected \[bug 57830]
* Added Slate Firmware warning to the diagnostics \[bug 57390]
* Fixed Slate text size \[bug 57335]
* Fixed behaviour of shift-click in lists when the contents are filtered \[bug 57467]
* Fixed an issue that could prevent the Cancel button in progress dialogs from working if grouped grading was enabled \[bug 57418]
* The name of the default audio channel mapping has been changed from 'None' to 'Default'. The default is a 1:1 mapping between input and output channels \[bug 57245]
* Audio VU meters now work when using non-SDI audio devices \[bug 55868]
* Fixed an issue where audio VU meters only showed data for the first 10 channels \[bug 57481]
* Usability improvements for Audio Channel Mapping \[bug 57513]
* Fixed an issue where the icons drawn in Audio Channel Mapping could be misaligned \[bug 57552]
* Fixed an issue where changes to the available Audio Monitor Channel Mappings were not reflected in the monitoring menu until the app was restarted \[bug 52332]
* Fixed an issue where any Scene or Sequence audio mappings were not reflected in the Audio Waveform View \[bug 56494]
* Added length metadata to the ASSETMAP files written with DCP and IMF packages. This avoids warnings in some validation tools \[bug 57530]
* Fixed an issue where bl-reset-cache refused to reset the cache if it contained Apple '.DS\_Store' or '.Spotlight-V100' resource files \[bug 57509]
* The Interleaved/Discrete audio option is no longer shown for formats where it is not valid \[bug 57142]
* WAV file export using 8-bit PCM codec did not work and is no longer presented as an option \[bug 57548]
* Fixed an issue where audio resampling could produce poor quality and noise. This was particularly noticeable for audio files with a 96kHz sample rate. These can now be read and exported correctly \[bug 57547]
* Fixed OFX plugin UI on Retina/hidpi displays \[bug 49964]
* Colour Space Journey View now shows the actual YCC->RGB matrix that is being used when the SDI output is set to use an Automatic matrix \[bug 57412]
* Improved support for new Blackmagic RAW cameras in the BRAW Params operator \[bug 57555]
* Shift-click in a filtered list (e.g. the FLUX Manage browser) no longer selects items that are filtered out \[bug 57467]
* Fixed failure to decode some 2578x2160 ARRIRAW media at full-frame 3424x2202 resolution \[bug 57571]
* Fixed long delay opening Render View in large scenes using certain options for render frame range selection \[bug 57578]
* Improved the quality of many thumbnails shown in the application and in Client View \[bug 55795]
* Fixed failure rendering mixed-resolution media using "Input Area" masking and "Crop Image To Mask" \[bug 57515]
* Unmapped channels in the Audio Channel Layout dialog now render silence instead of causing the render to fail \[bug 57605]
* Fixed an issue where audio channel mappings were not applied correctly. Scenes using the 'Stereo' and 'Surround 5.1' channel map presets with input media no longer produce data in other channels. Render deliverables mixing multiple input channels together could previously produce an incorrect mix \[bug 57499]
* Fixed an issue where searching for related audio stems could fail to find or incorrectly sort related stems \[bug 57539]
* Added a scroll bar to Audio parameters to improve behaviour when using many stem files \[bug 57538]
* Fixed crash on startup when checking for libgdk-3.so.0 \[bug 57664]
* The 'Set Sel.' / 'Paste Mode' key now cycles between all 3 paste modes and updates Cuts and Gallery Views instantly to reflect the change \[bug 57566]
* bl-reset-cache now trims solid state storage to improve long-term performance \[bug 46426]
* Fixed problem where a floating licence was taken when a Mac first booted \[bug 56303]
* Fixed issue in LUT export where embedded LUTs and layer 0 operators are not included \[bug 56768]
* Removed "NULL Control" diagnostic from console output \[bug 53950]
* Fixed issue where the extrapolate forward button wouldn't work on a desk \[bug 57698]
* Fixed bug in the perspective operator where the "Hide Overlay On Edit" button wouldn't be restored after defining a plane \[bug 57447]
* Allowed EXR exposure operators to be copied and pasted \[bug 57734]
* Fixed an issue where AVC-LongGOP encoded MXF files were incorrectly identified as being AVC-Intra and failed to decode the end of the file \[bug 57737]
* Fixed failure to render to some image formats from a scene set to 12-bit Display and Timeline Cache \[bug 57501]
* Fixed crash in Linux services if the network interfaces are changed \[bug 57740]
* Fixed R3D media with a LUT incorrectly applying the LUT when using CPU decoding. Note this only affects newly-inserted media; existing scenes will continue to render as they did before \[bug 57752]
* Fixed a bug that could cause services to send crash reports when they had not actually crashed \[bug 57766]
* Fixed issue with the shot view disabling the desk controls \[bug 57748]
* Fixed an issue where changes to the audio monitoring channel map did not take effect immediately \[bug 57635]
* Fixed reference strip issue which cause it to transiently output an incorrect image \[bug 57758]
* Fixed automatic scrolling in Layer Views when dragging a layer \[bug 57662]
* Fixed an issue where the image compression setting could appear to be reset when switching between deliverables in Render View \[bug 57794]
* Fixed Dolby Vision EDR XML export failure when a keyframed trim exceeds the valid range of a parameter \[bug 57825]
* Fixed failure to startup when there is no saved workspace for the current screen layout \[bug 57656]
* Fixed regression preventing joining of multiple vertical strips \[bug 57589]
* Fixed inability to use tab or shift + tab accelerators on UI monitors other than the first \[bug 57383]
* Fixed issue where the 'Go To DBS' desk button wouldn't work when in the Gallery but following the Current Cursor \[bug 57716]
* Fixed issue where attempting to join strips could cause an internal error \[bug 57839]
* Fixed an error in the fl-service output for the index service on macOS \[bug 57681]
* Dolby Vision ISXD MXF rendering is temporarily unavailable, pending certification by Dolby \[bug 57850]
* Fixed a bug in fl-report that could result in a 'broken pipe' error appearing on the terminal after a command has been run \[bug 57857]
* Fixed a crash when rendering H.264 or HEVC using the Nvidia GPU hardware encoder \[bug 56462]
* Fixed an issue preventing renders of Dolby Vision Mezzanine MXF combined with audio \[bug 57872]
* Fixed a crash on exit after using GPU JPEG 2000 acceleration \[bug 44353]
*   Changed the 'Gallery/Cutview' desk button used to change DBS focus. Pressing the button will always toggle between the view which previously had DBS focus and the current view with DBS focus. Pressing the button with Control/Command held will cycle DBS focus through all DBS enabled views.

    Desk display messages are now displayed on a Slate \[bug 57637]
* Holding the 'Gallery/Cutview' desk button will set DBS focus to Cuts View \[bug 57633]
* Fixed issue where modifying an Area Tracker reference keyframe using the Desk would result in a jump of the result offset position \[bug 57516]
* Fixed very small colour shift when reading media using various 4:2:2 codecs, including Apple ProRes and DNx \[bug 53512]
* Fixed issue wereby scrubbing a thumbnail to the end of a shot in Layer View popped up over a Gallery would scrub to the first frame of the next shot \[bug 56368]
* Fixed issue where renders of IMF packages could fail due to an error getting global Dolby Vision metadata \[bug 57935]
* Briefly display a message indicating when the keypad mode is changed on a Blackboard or Slate \[bug 57628]
* Fixed incorrect padding in Shots View template substitutions \[bug 57395]
* Fixed issue with floating Layer Views whereby it was possible to pop-down during a thumbnail scrub \[bug 57887]
* Fixed an issue preventing renders of IMF packages without audio \[bug 57942]
* Updated Kona 5 8K firmware to fix audio problems \[bug 58006]
* Fixed an issue on macOS that would cause the vol service to fail after a reboot, and require a manual start \[bug 56661]
* Fixed an issue affecting searching for media by name in conform and when changing sequence name \[bug 57671]
* Fixed occasional flux copy hang when using 'jumbo' network frames on Mac platform \[bug 57918]
* Fixed crash in Conform which could occur if attempting to conform an AAF containing source keycode \[bug 55595]
* Fixed flit daemon startup crash on Linux when avahi server is not running \[bug 56680]
* Fixed an issue that prevented the save state of scenes in the Scene Dropdown menu being updated \[bug 57668]
* Added a limited right-click menu to non-thumbnail areas of Gallery \[bug 58005]
* Fixed a crash on startup with an invalid audio configuration \[bug 55208]
* Fixed several issues in the index service that could cause media to be incorrectly indexed \[bug 53893]
* Fixed incorrect colour conversions in CPU renderer \[bug 58139]
* The Audio Display Offset setting in Setups now works \[bug 56345]
* Fixed cache handling regression with yfs-mounted storage \[bug 58127]
* Fixed crash when switching between view modes (1x1, 2x1, etc) whilst playing \[bug 54892]
* Fixed a crash that could occur on scene close after opening a scene read-only \[bug 57224]
* Fixed "Pixmap 0 is NULL" message when switching between video modes in Setups editor \[bug 57672]
* Fixed hang that could occur when reading DCP audio \[bug 58179]
* Fixed an issue in the index service that could cause the service to appear to start slowly, and cause it to do more database updates than is necessary \[bug 58067]
* Added support for the NVIDIA RTX A4000 gpu card, which requires version 460.84 of the driver. The installer for this version is available from the FilmLight website \[bug 58143]
* Improved speed of trimming ARRI ProRes QuickTime files \[bug 58215]
* Reinstated missing "Edit" menu items ("Copy Parameter Values", "Numeric Keypad Mode" etc) \[bug 58248]

## Known Issues

* When running Baselight CONFORM or Daylight on macOS 10.15 Catalina, local volumes which are defined in volume.cfg within /Volumes can result in "Stale NFS file handle" errors. This is due to a bug in macOS. To work around this issue:
  * open System Preferences from the Dock or the Apple menu
  * choose "Security & Privacy"
  *   click the padlock icon and use your password or Touch ID to allow

      changes to be made
  * select "Full Disk Access" in the list on the left
  * click the "+" button on the right to open a file browser
  * on your keyboard, press "/" to open the "Go to the folder" dialog
  * enter "/sbin" and click "Go"
  *   select the file called "nfsd" and click "Open"

      After restarting your Mac, the volume(s) should now work correctly

      \[bug 53073]
* Saturated areas in Photo RAW files can acquire a colour tint when adjusting the exposure slider in the Photo RAW Parameters operator while blending highlights \[bug 44769]
* Baselight 5 enables GPU acceleration in OFX plugins. This improves performance but may introduce new issues depending on the 3rd-party plugin implementation \[bug 47224]
* Canon RAW media added to scenes in Baselight 5.1.10836 or earlier using the tone curve setting "Canon Log" may now fail to decode with an error message stating "Invalid function parameter". Changing the tone curve will allow images to decode, but will change their look \[bug 50371]
* ProRes RAW decodes have been seen to fail on macOS 10.14.5 with Apple Pro Video Formats 2.2 installed; downgrading to Apple Pro Video Formats 2.1.1 fixes this issue \[bug 56591]
* When running Baselight CONFORM or Daylight on macOS 11.x Big Sur with AJA devices, AJA Software v16.x is required \[bug 57986]

Baselight Release 5.3.15105 (2021-07-29)

## New Features Since Baselight 5.3.14986

*   Increased the speed of most RED media decoding on Linux systems,

    particularly with multiple GPUs \[bug 58270]

## Bug Fixes Since Baselight 5.3.14986

* Fixed failures on Linux when using high-resolution RED media, particularly on systems with 12GB or smaller GPUs \[bug 58233]
* Fixed issue on Linux in the previous Baselight release where RED media could result in out-of-order or repeated frames \[bug 58241]
* Fixed failure to read RED media which has a camera LUT that is disabled by an RMD file \[bug 58258]
