# 베이스라이트 릴리즈 노트 5.3.15966 (2022-01-11)

## Important Notes

Baselight 5.3 no longer supports the following legacy hardware and OS platforms:

* Baselight FOUR and Baselight EIGHT systems
* DVI-to-SDI Convertors or Combiners performing that function
* RME Hammerfall audio cards
* Tape deck control within Baselight (the standalone VTRE application remains available)
* Spirit telecine control
* NVIDIA Quadro NVS 450 GPU (as a User Interface display card)
* macOS 10.14 and earlier

Generation V systems using DVI-to-SDI Convertors or Combiners need to either be upgraded to the Baselight Ultra High Definition option (see data sheet) which includes an AJA Kona 4 PCIe card or revert to GPU DVI output. Earlier generation systems are now constrained to a GPU DVI output only.

Please contact Baselight support to discuss upgrading from a NVS 450 if required.

FilmLightOS 8 or later is required to use GPU JPEG 2000 acceleration with Nvidia Ampere GPUs

Truelight Player (tl-player) is no longer available.

When running Baselight CONFORM or Daylight on macOS 11.x Big Sur and later with AJA devices, AJA Software v16.x is required.

## New Features Since Baselight 5.3.15854

### Group Handling Improvements

*   Added "Paste Groups" setting to Multi-Paste. If this setting is "Yes", then group membership (red square selection in the Cuts view) will be pasted when the multi-paste is performed. The setting is "Yes" by default.

    If source and destination shots are part of the same scene, then the destination shots will be added to the same groups as their matching source shot. This, for example, makes it easy to multi-paste a grade and group membership onto a new version of a shot and then delete the old version.

    If source and destination shots are part of different scenes, then new groups will be created within the destination scene. This makes it very easy to preserve groups when re-conforming into a new scene. Note that this new groups will _only_ contain shots which were multi-pasted onto, so it's important that all shots which are part of a group are included in the multi-paste \[bug 16440]
*   Added new "Include Groups" copy-and-paste setting in the Edit menu. When enabled (it is on by default), then when the Paste Strips at Cursor operator (Ctrl/Cmd+f) is performed, group membership information will be included in the paste.

    The rules regarded when existing or new groups are reused or created are identical to those for Multi-Paste \[bug 50613]

### Miscellaneous

* Restored the ability to use an SDI card as an audio output device when using DP, HDMI or DVI output from a GPU \[bug 54519]
* Added an option to CDL grade which specifies which grade to export if there are multiple CDLs within a given shot. Option "Top" exports the top-most CDL, "Bottom" exports the bottom-most CDL and "Layer n" allows the user to input the layer number of the cdl to export. Note that a shot with a single CDL is considered to belong to the top-most CDL. Any CDL export within a shot that contains no CDL where specified will generate an empty CDL file \[bug 59487]

## Bug Fixes Since Baselight 5.3.15854

* Fixed crash at startup on Linux if a BlackboardScreen is defined in xorg.conf but no Blackboard is attached \[bug 59012]
* Fixed random SDI output hang when starting playback \[bug 58446]
* Removed JMSAppender.class from the bundled version of log4j as it was vulnerable to the log4shell exploit. JMSAppender was not used by any part of the application and has been removed as a safety precaution \[bug 59577]
* Fixed clipped highlights in ARRIRAW media decoded using the ARRI v7 SDK when rendering more than 500 frames of a scene \[bug 59473]
* Fixed incorrect service name in the bbclassic preference \[bug 59582]
* Fixed crash on start up when connected with a BBOne \[bug 59391]

## Known Issues

* When running Baselight CONFORM or Daylight on macOS 10.15 Catalina, local volumes which are defined in volume.cfg within /Volumes can result in "Stale NFS file handle" errors. This is due to a bug in macOS. To work around this issue:
  * open System Preferences from the Dock or the Apple menu
  * choose "Security & Privacy"
  * click the padlock icon and use your password or Touch ID to allow changes to be made
  * select "Full Disk Access" in the list on the left
  * click the "+" button on the right to open a file browser
  * on your keyboard, press "/" to open the "Go to the folder" dialog
  * enter "/sbin" and click "Go"
  * select the file called "nfsd" and click "Open" After restarting your Mac, the volume(s) should now work correctly \[bug 53073]
* Saturated areas in Photo RAW files can acquire a colour tint when adjusting the exposure slider in the Photo RAW Parameters operator while blending highlights \[bug 44769]
* Baselight 5 enables GPU acceleration in OFX plugins. This improves performance but may introduce new issues depending on the 3rd-party plugin implementation \[bug 47224]
* Canon RAW media added to scenes in Baselight 5.1.10836 or earlier using the tone curve setting "Canon Log" may now fail to decode with an error message stating "Invalid function parameter". Changing the tone curve will allow images to decode, but will change their look \[bug 50371]
* ProRes RAW decodes have been seen to fail on macOS 10.14.5 with Apple Pro Video Formats 2.2 installed; downgrading to Apple Pro Video Formats 2.1.1 fixes this issue \[bug 56591]
