# 베이스라이트 릴리즈 노트 5.3.14396 (2021-02-23)

## 중요사항

베이스라이트 5.3은 아래의 더이상 예전의 하드웨어와 OS 플랫폼을 지원하지 않습니다. :

* 베이스라이트 4/ 8 시스템&#x20;
* 해당 기능을 수행하는 DVI-to-SDI 컨버터 또는 컴바이너&#x20;
* RME Hammerfall 오디오 카드&#x20;
* 베이스라이트의  테이프 데크 컨트롤  (독립적인 VTRE 어플리케이션은 사용가능)
* Spirit 텔레시네 컨트롤
* Nvidia 쿼드로 450 GPU (유저디스플레이용 카드)
* &#x20;MacOS 10.12&#x20;

베이스라이트 5.2는 DVI-to-SDI 컨버터나 컴바이너를 사용할 수 있는 마지막 버전입니다. 베이스라이트 5.3 버전 5세대 시스템은 AJA kona4 하드웨어가 포함된 베이스라이트 UHD옵션으로 업그레이드를 하거나 GPU DVI  출력을 사용해야 합니다. 이전세대 시스템의 경우 GPU  DVI만 사용할 수 있습니다.&#x20;

NVS450 업그레이드가 필요한 경우 베이스라이트 기술지원을 받으세요.

## 최신기능 (Baselight 5.3.14243이후)

* The middle track ball and ring on the Blackboard and Slate now control the zoom and pan of the Display and Timeline. When Control is pressed the middle trackball will pan the image and the ring will zoom the image. Pressing Control and Shift will allow the middle trackball to pan the Timeline and middle ring to zoom the Timeline \[bug 53814]
*   FLUX Store systems now run internal diagnostics periodically, and those diagnostic results are available to every Baselight system that shares the same cloud. The 'Network' group has a set of results for 'FLUX Store diagnostics', where the diagnostics are summarised for each FLUX Store.

    Any failures or warnings in any FLUX Store's own diagnostics will result in a warning for the Baselight. Selecting any of the specific warnings or failures will launch a new fl-diag to view the FLUX Store diagnostics in full detail.
* The Client View (a web browser based app that allows clients to monitor/interact with the colourist during a grading session) has received several improvements, including:
  * A new 'High Res' mode toggle. When enabled, the Client View page switches from a low resolution, grid layout to a high resolution, single column layout. High Res mode also adds buttons to jump to the previous/next shots.
  * When the colourist changes frame with the current shot, the Client View should also display that frame for the equivalent shot's thumbnail/image.
  * Improved image colour accuracy across numerous browsers.
  *   Optional preferences to add a custom png logo and website link to the Client View. This can be used to brand the Client View with a facility's logo that, when clicked, opens that facility's website in a new browser tab.

      These settings can be found in Preferences->System->Customer Information.
  * Various preferences/options are now available to clients directly from the Client View web page itself \[bug 54932]
*   Added support for writing supplemental IMF packages. Two new types of package are available when selecting the 'DCP/IMF' button in Render View. Some package types were also renamed for clarity. The available IMF types are now:

    * IMF: Generic (App2e): Create a package compliant with SMPTE 2067-21. Previously called "IMF: Application 2e".
    * IMF: Netflix SDR: Resolutions and codec options locked to match the SDR packages defined in Netflix Originals Delivery Specification version OC-3-3.
    * IMF: Supplemental: Create supplemental packages (without Dolby Vision metadata). Configuration is derived from the "master CPL" upon which the supplemental package is based.

    This following additional options appear only if a Dolby Vision mastering display has been set in the scene settings:

    * IMF: Generic (App2e) - Dolby Vision: Creates a generic SMPTE 2067-21 package where the video file is a Dolby Vision Mezzanine MXF with embedded Dolby Vision metadata. Previously called "IMF: Application 2e with Dolby Vision Mezzanine".
    * IMF: Netflix HDR - Dolby Vision: Resolutions and codec options locked to match the HDR packages defined in Netflix Originals Delivery Specification version OC-3-3. Previously called "IMF: Netflix HDR".
    * IMF: Supplemental - Dolby Vision: Create supplemental packages with Dolby Vision metadata. Configuration is derived from the "master CPL" upon which the supplemental package is based.

    Setting the 'Type:' entry to one of the supplemental IMF types reveals controls to select a Master CPL and a Master Scene. The CPL from the previous package version, e.g. original version if creating a version one package, is selected using the Master CPL entry. The supplemental package will contain the differences between the Master Scene and the current scene. The 'Compare Master Scene to Current Scene' button can be used to examine what will be included in the supplemental package before submitting the render.

    Using 'Save As' to save a copy of a scene after creating a package will allow the saved scene to be used as the Master Scene when creating supplemental packages.

    If a copy of the scene used to create the Master CPL is not available to use as Master Scene, a new scene can be created using the Master CPL. The scene must then be duplicated and the required changes can be made in the duplicated scene. The Master Scene is then used as the source for comparison.

    CPLs appear as movie files in FLUX Manage View. Supplemental packages must be saved in a directory adjacent to the master package or in a subdirectory inside the master package for all media to be found. If the original version is stored in /vol/images/OV, a supplemental package based on that version must be stored in e.g /vol/images/V1 or /vol/images/OV/V1 for the CPL to display the correct media files \[bug 53467]
* Updated to DNxHD/DNxHR/DNxUncompressed SDK version 2.6.3. This fixes issues, including image corruption decoding 1080i media with alpha \[bug 56601]
* Updated to Canon RAW SDK version 2.6. This adds support for lower bit rate CRM clips shot by EOS-1D X Mark III and EOS R5 \[bug 56847]
* Raw metadata (from fl-imageinfo -raw) now includes duration, fps and codec (for all movie files), and timecode rate (for QuickTime, Phantom Cine and audio media) \[bug 56448]
* Autodesk colour space metadata in OpenEXR media is now recognised and used to assist default colour space selection \[bug 56733]
* Flip/flop metadata in R3D media is now recognised \[bug 57033]

## 버그 개선 (Baselight 5.3.14243이후)

* Changed "M-303 SkyPanel" look target illuminant from CIE Daylight to CIE A (tungsten). This change will cause scenes generated with a beta release of Baselight 5.3 and containing this look to produce a different result \[bug 56311]
* Fixed crash editing a render operation from Queue Monitor View before Render View had been opened \[bug 56416]
* Photon validation reports are now supported in the bl-render commandline using the -photon option \[bug 53467]
* Prevent the fl-diag dpm test from causing a WARN status when a disks maximum-ever temperature has been above 70 degrees \[bug 56560]
* Fix an issue that could cause some fl-diag modules not to run when fl-diag is invoked using the '-run module' option \[bug 56564]
* Fix an issue that could cause the dpm diagnostic tool to fail on systems that have SSDs \[bug 55984]
* Fix an issue that could cause the cpu diagnostic to warn that the Asus P8Z77-M host is unrecognised \[bug 56174]
* Fixed crash when using clone brush in Paint \[bug 56557]
* DSpot as a layer operator is no longer restricted to the input layer \[bug 56604]
* Fixed crash on start-up with dual screen layout on macOS \[bug 54882]
* On Baselight TWO/X systems, UI hosts are started using wake-on-LAN. This has been made more reliable by sending the WOL packet out of all network interfaces \[bug 56610]
* "Select Operators Of Specific Type" now works for LUT and CDL operators created from data embedded in the media. The operators must have been inserted in a build with this fix \[bug 56614]
* Fixed logging on macOS when no Blackboard Classic present \[bug 56674]
* Fixed an issue that could cause blocky artefacts and frames to decode in the wrong order when reading HEVC-encoded QuickTime movies. Notably, this affected movies recorded using newer iPhones \[bug 52627]
* Fixed corrupted 2048x1080 image output on AJA T-Tap \[bug 56722]
* Fixed an issue causing renders of IMF packages and Dolby Vision Mezzanine MXFs to fail with a message about invalid metadata \[bug 56338]
* Improved the error message when the Nvidia GPU hardware encoder reaches the maximum number of concurrent encoding sessions. The limit for a particular GPU can be found in the video encode support matrix provided by Nvidia \[bug 56754]
* Fixed invalid green HDMI output on AJA T-Tap \[bug 56419]
* Fixed input, output and toggle button labels in Render view when modifying XML, AAF or FCPXXML \[bug 55287]
* Fixed Export ASC CDL Grades option when CDL grades are all unity \[bug 56139]
* Fixed issue with missing thumbnails on Blackboard 2 \[bug 56669]
* Fixed incorrect images in BLGs exported to non-local volumes \[bug 56404]
* Fixed bug which could cause a crash if a layer/strip was removed (via undo) when one of its operator's text edit fields had focus \[bug 55807]
* Fixed crash when a stack has two Dolby Vision Trim strips set to different target displays with the same luminance \[bug 55246]
* Fixed incorrect scopes when changing between cursors with different settings \[bug 56782]
* Fixed an issue that could prevent large OpAtom MXF files from being read \[bug 56759]
* Track Forwards and Track Backwards buttons are back above the right track ball on the Slate \[bug 56772]
* Fixed crash which could occur if a sequence versioning wildcard didn't represent a valid regular expression \[bug 56709]
* Fixed render failures on FLUX Store systems, for example when using LUTs embedded in input media \[bug 56810]
* Fixed incorrect behaviour in some OFX plugins on macOS \[bug 56793]
* On macOS switched the Blackboard Classic's Wacom pen's bottom rocker button to a middle mouse click \[bug 56889]
* Fixed crash in some applications (e.g. bl-prefs) when no licence is installed \[bug 56872]
* Fixed direction of the panner in the Layer View and Paint operator \[bug 56804]
* Fixed error loading BLGs with decode parameters \[bug 56902]
* Fixed some controls (e.g. mask options) in Render View not being updated when the view is first opened for a scene \[bug 56853]
* Fixed failure to decode Blackmagic RAW on systems with GPUs with less than 3GB VRAM; on these sytems it will be decoded on the CPU instead \[bug 56933]
* Fixed an issue where 'Verify Render' could fail to detect duplicate filenames \[bug 56924]
* Fixed an issue on macOS systems configured with an SDI output device where the application did not accept typing into text fields until cmd-tab was used to switch out of the app and back again \[bug 56948]
* Fixed an issue with dpm reporting on the wrong disks in some hardware configurations \[bug 55983]
* Fixed an issue with dpm failing to report on systems with NVME configured as cache \[bug 56983]
* Fixed FLUX Manage thumbnails for media with flip/flop metadata \[bug 57033]
* IMF packages with subdirectories will no longer decode if there are conflicting entries in multiple ASSETMAP-files \[bug 56914]

## Known Issues

* Due to an issue in the R3D SDK, on macOS systems capable of using Metal for R3D decoding, R3D media with flip/flop metadata is decoded in a different orientation than on Linux systems and non-Metal-using macOS systems \[bug 56836]
* When running Baselight CONFORM or Daylight on macOS 10.15 Catalina, local volumes which are defined in volume.cfg within /Volumes can result in "Stale NFS file handle" errors. This is due to a bug in macOS. To work around this issue:
  * open System Preferences from the Dock or the Apple menu
  * choose "Security & Privacy"
  *   click the padlock icon and use your password or Touch ID to allow

      changes to be made
  * select "Full Disk Access" in the list on the left
  * click the "+" button on the right to open a file browser
  * on your keyboard, press "/" to open the "Go to the folder" dialog
  * enter "/sbin" and click "Go"
  *   select the file called "nfsd" and click "Open"

      After restarting your Mac, the volume(s) should now work correctly

      \[bug 53073]
* Saturated areas in Photo RAW files can acquire a colour tint when adjusting the exposure slider in the Photo RAW Parameters operator while blending highlights \[bug 44769]
* Baselight 5 enables GPU acceleration in OFX plugins. This improves performance but may introduce new issues depending on the 3rd-party plugin implementation \[bug 47224]
* Canon RAW media added to scenes in Baselight 5.1.10836 or earlier using the tone curve setting "Canon Log" may now fail to decode with an error message stating "Invalid function parameter". Changing the tone curve will allow images to decode, but will change their look \[bug 50371]
